prompts/plan-architecture.prompt.md, before:

---
name: plan-architecture
description: "Plan system architecture with strategic research and TDD-driven implementation plan"
argument-hint: "[Architecture topic or feature area]"
agent: metis
tools: ['search', 'usages']
---

# Plan Architecture Strategically (Métis)

## Planning Process

### 1. Understand Requirements
- O que você quer construir?
- Como isso se conecta com sistema existente?
- Quais constraints temos?

### 2. Research Phase (Parallel)
Use @apollo-subagent para exploração:
- Descobrir files relacionados
- Entender dependencies
- Identificar padrões existentes

### 3. Create TDD Plan

Sua plan DEVE ter:
- **Overview**: O que será construído, critérios de sucesso
- **3-10 Fases**: Cada fase auto-contida com testes
- **Phase Structure**:
  - Testes a escrever (RED)
  - Código mínimo (GREEN)
  - Files a modificar
  - Dependências externas
  
- **Risks & Mitigation**: O que podia dar errado?

### 4. Web Research Integration
Para patterns avançados, pesquise:
- JWT specifications (RFC 7519)
- REST API design (RFC 7231)
- Domain-Driven Design patterns
- Security best practices (OWASP)

### 5. Offer Handoff
Após plan, ofereça:
"Ready to execute with @zeus? I can coordinate all agents..."

## Output Format
- 📋 Requirements summary
- 🔍 Codebase findings
- 📝 Comprehensive TDD plan
- ⚠️ Risk assessment
- 🤔 Design decisions with rationale
- ✋ Ready for @zeus handoff

## When to Use
- Planning complex features (payment, auth, etc)
- Architectural decisions
- When you want deep research first

Commit message:

Refactor agent references and documentation updates across multiple files
- Updated agent references from @hefesto and @afrodite to @hermes and @aphrodite in maat.agent.md, ra.agent.md, and temis.agent.md.
- Added new mnemosyne.agent.md for context management and documentation responsibilities.
- Corrected spelling of agent names and improved consistency in documentation.
- Enhanced backend, frontend, and database standards documentation for clarity and consistency.
- Updated prompts for debugging, implementing features, and orchestrating with Zeus to reflect new agent names and roles.
- Improved prompt examples and usage documentation for better clarity and consistency in language.

prompts/plan-architecture.prompt.md, after:

---
name: plan-architecture
description: "Plan system architecture with strategic research and TDD-driven implementation plan"
argument-hint: "[Architecture topic or feature area]"
agent: metis
tools: ['search', 'usages']
---

# Plan Architecture Strategically (Metis)

## Planning Process

### 1. Understand Requirements
- What do you want to build?
- How does it connect with the existing system?
- What constraints do we have?

### 2. Research Phase (Parallel)
Use @apollo-subagent for exploration:
- Discover related files
- Understand dependencies
- Identify existing patterns

### 3. Create TDD Plan

Your plan MUST have:
- **Overview**: What will be built, success criteria
- **3-10 Phases**: Each phase self-contained with tests
- **Phase Structure**:
  - Tests to write (RED)
  - Minimal code (GREEN)
  - Files to modify
  - External dependencies
  
- **Risks & Mitigation**: What could go wrong?

### 4. Web Research Integration
For advanced patterns, research:
- JWT specifications (RFC 7519)
- REST API design (RFC 7231)
- Domain-Driven Design patterns
- Security best practices (OWASP)

### 5. Offer Handoff
After plan, offer:
"Ready to execute with @zeus? I can coordinate all agents..."

## Output Format
- 📋 Requirements summary
- 🔍 Codebase findings
- 📝 Comprehensive TDD plan
- ⚠️ Risk assessment
- 🤔 Design decisions with rationale
- ✋ Ready for @zeus handoff

## When to Use
- Planning complex features (payment, auth, etc)
- Architectural decisions
- When you want deep research first
