instructions/database-standards.instructions.md, before:

---
description: "Database development standards for SQLAlchemy/Alembic"
name: "Database Development Standards"
applyTo: "**/*migration*.py"
---

# Database Development Standards (Tétis)

## Migrations
- Create forward migration script
- Create rollback (downgrade) script
- Test ambas (upgrade + downgrade)
- Nunca editar migrations antigas

## Entities & Relationships
- Always add created_at, updated_at timestamps
- Use UUID ou auto-increment primaries keys
- Foreign key constraints
- Índices em: PK, FK, search columns, sort columns

## Data Integrity
- NOT NULL constraints onde necessário
- UNIQUE constraints para identifiers
- CHECK constraints para validação
- Foreign key cascades apropriadas

## Query Optimization
- Avoid N+1 queries (use eager loading)
- Índices em WHERE, JOIN, ORDER BY columns
- Analyze query plans com EXPLAIN
- Batch operations when possible

## Backward Compatibility
- Migrations devem ser backward compatible
- Suportar rollback sem perda de dados
- Cuidado com drops de colunas/tabelas

Commit message:

Refactor agent references and documentation updates across multiple files
- Updated agent references from @hefesto and @afrodite to @hermes and @aphrodite in maat.agent.md, ra.agent.md, and temis.agent.md.
- Added new mnemosyne.agent.md for context management and documentation responsibilities.
- Corrected spelling of agent names and improved consistency in documentation.
- Enhanced backend, frontend, and database standards documentation for clarity and consistency.
- Updated prompts for debugging, implementing features, and orchestrating with Zeus to reflect new agent names and roles.
- Improved prompt examples and usage documentation for better clarity and consistency in language.

instructions/database-standards.instructions.md, after:

---
description: "Database development standards for SQLAlchemy/Alembic"
name: "Database Development Standards"
applyTo: "**/*migration*.py"
---

# Database Development Standards (Maat)

## Migrations
- Create forward migration script
- Create rollback (downgrade) script
- Test both (upgrade + downgrade)
- Never edit old migrations

## Entities & Relationships
- Always add created_at, updated_at timestamps
- Use UUID or auto-increment primary keys
- Foreign key constraints
- Indexes on: PK, FK, search columns, sort columns

## Data Integrity
- NOT NULL constraints where required
- UNIQUE constraints for identifiers
- CHECK constraints for validation
- Appropriate foreign key cascades

## Query Optimization
- Avoid N+1 queries (use eager loading)
- Indexes on WHERE, JOIN, ORDER BY columns
- Analyze query plans with EXPLAIN
- Batch operations when possible

## Backward Compatibility
- Migrations must be backward compatible
- Support rollback without data loss
- Be careful with column/table drops
